---

# fill in
date:      2017-04-07T00:00:00Z
title:     Monax 0.16.0 is Released
author:    zach
excerpt:   "From consolidation to logging and everything in between."
thumbnail: monax_0160_release.jpg
categories:
  - releases
tags:
  - engineering
  - eris
  - monax
url: /2017/04/07/monax-0.16.0-is-released/

# use if needed
published: true
comments:  true
meta:      true
utm:
  source: "website"
  medium: "blog"
  campaign: "v0.16 release"

---

## The big consolidation
[{{< image_blog "monax_0160_release.jpg" >}}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/kruzulis/6521122443/in/photolist-aWfsvz-S3En41-qwskrG-nS7VYS-hLPotz-EEg8E1-qSGmk2-ewk46d-mPyytq-jxAtsG-oH8Qmr-8XTLNn-jBPxhf-euUmTw-7bdHfV-fY9Upm-saxHe1-rYnGvk-o9tPKq-9tqChE-561XEx-o9wvmy-7DcdDf-apsFUK-bvGorQ-5HHPEh-Janxcy-bCs1FD-ScnV1B-rjNGkm-HhhcTh-hVLi4m-9BXgp1-Rgorik-nBCLqw-Stgnco-R92XFk-FJVzFS-pwaF3n-dAuFfc-fbfo1c-8JR3vp-8o1fst-dogu8q-pVYoLi-r79H7r-FqYUqe-GHwsrs-fDD8K7-Pxz7FE)


The previous 0.12.0 release set the stage for what I consider to be our last "big" release. Monax has been building developer tools for the blockchain ecosystem since late 2014 and in that time, we've gone from one massive binary to extremely modular to the current cozy middleground. Today's 0.16.0 release marks 5 months of consolidation, technical debt removal, bug hunting, and streamlining of the features we've been asked for by users or consider necessary for both production chains and easy to use developer tooling. 

By far the biggest user-facing change is the complete re-name of the platform and tooling from `eris` to `monax`. Deprecated features and repositories are left named `eris` for historical purposes. Additionally, `eris-db` has been renamed to `burrow` and [accepted for incubation in the Hyperledger project](https://www.hyperledger.org/blog/2017/04/10/hey-you-got-your-ethereum-in-my-hyperledger).

## Tooling

We had **way** too many repositories. At one point I had counted 18 *essential* repos for the functioning of our stack. So what's gone?
* `eris-pm` => code consolidated into the main `monax` cli [repository](https://github.com/monax/cli)
* `eris-cm` => code consolidated as above
* `eris-abi` => was previously a dependency of `eris-pm` and has been unforked; `monax` now imports the [go-ethereum](https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum) ABI directly
* `eris-logger` => was a fork of the logrus library; has been added as a package in the `monax` repo and imported where required
* `eris-services` => holds the service definition files & has been deprecated; eliminates problems with installs behind a proxy
* `eris-chains` => held chains definition files that are instead generated by the tool
* `eris-actions` => was used for the deprecated `eris actions` command
* `mint-client` => contains low level tooling for interacting with chains; most features have moved into the `burrow` repo as `burrow-client`.
* `common` => contained common pieces of functionality which have now moved into their respective repositories
* `coding` => contained useful code snippets for tutorials (moved to [hello-doug](https://github.com/monax/hello-doug)) and coding/release information (moved to the [monax repository](https://github.com/monax/cli)

The former two reduce both the runtime and bugs-via-docker-edge-cases associated with the `monax pkgs do` and `monax chains make` commands, respectively. And they remove two docker images previously required. The latter repo deprecations simplify developers' lives.

Other major improvements include:
* bump solidity version used by the compilers from 0.3.6 to 0.4.4 providing access to a slew of new features. In the next release, the compilers repo will be deprecated and relevant functionality added to the monax cli repo 
* relatedly, compiling of smart contracts now happens locally by default via compilers-as-a-service rather than via our remote service (which occasionally went down to the chagrin of our users)
* binary linking for contract deployments

## Command Optimizations

* `monax chains make` now requires the `--unsafe` flag to add the `privKey` field into the `accounts.json` file (consumed by the javascript libraries). This kicks off an increasing focus on security concerns.
* `monax chains make` now has an optional but highly recommended `--seeds-ip` flag, eliminating manual editing of each and every `config.toml` for multi-node chains

For a detailed overview of all changes in the cli tool, see the [changelog](https://github.com/monax/cli/blob/v0.16.0/CHANGELOG.md)

## eris-db => burrow

The big news for eris-db has been the re-licensing from GPL3 to Apache 2 and subsequent acceptance of the codebase to the Hyperledger Project for incubation. It was also re-named from `eris-db` to `burrow`. In addition, we've addressed:
* technical debt in secure natives addressed along with future-proofing by ugrading to SHA3
* genesis time re-introduced (the `genesis.json` now uses the current time at generation rather than a random fixed time)
* consolidation & clarification of relationship between `burrow` and the `monax` tooling
* significant overhaul of logging; sets stage for production-grade logging capabilities & seperation between burrow's logs and tendermint's logs

### Tendermint Consensus Update

Last release we went from tendermint version 0.4 to version 0.6; a major change that require a lot of work while `eris-db` was still being refactored. This release, we upgrade to tendermint version 0.8 with much less fanfare and this paves the path forward for quick and simple upgrades to keep up with the development of tendermint.

## Why 0.16.0?

You might be asking yourself why we jumped from 0.12.0 to 0.16.0. Are 13, 14, 15 irrelevant? No. In fact, we're doing this to sync up with javacript libraries which until now were versioned ahead of the rest of the platform. Moving forward, a `platform release` will mean a unified version for all components of the platform. Like everything else in this release, this will help simplify things for  both our users and the developers of the monax platform. As mentioned in the opening paragraph, this being the last "big" release, we expect a much faster development cycle moving forward.

## Documentation Enhancements

For some time now our docs & tutorials have been neglected. Navigating them on the site was confusing. Previously, documentation was generated from multiple repositories while tutorials were in the private repo that hosts our website. This was in stark contrast to the once open-source repo (`docs.erisindustries.com`) users and contributors had once become accustomed to. Moving forward, all documentation and tutorials will be generated from the `docs/` directory in the `monax` cli repository. Users can look forward to an increased focus on documentation in the coming months. We're also aiming to improve testing of the apps in the `hello-doug` repository.

## Installation and Upgrade

To install monax version 0.16.0 please see our {{< utm_link title="Getting Started" href="/docs/getting-started/" >}} page. If you're upgrading, we strongly recommend the package manager for your appropriate platform. Note that `choco` support for Windows has been deprecated.

Please note that the javascript libraries are now released in sync with the platform; see the README [here](https://github.com/monax/legacy-db.js) and [here](https://github.com/monax/legacy-contracts.js) for details on the re-name. Be sure to use the latest patch version (e.g.; 0.16.3)

## What's Next

Our next release will be numbered 0.17.0 and will include:

* much more technical debt removal; this will simplify contributions
* strong focus on reported bugs; with the stack in good shape, we can address the many lingering issues
* improvements to the package manager to handle library requirements
* greater testing and documentation of example apps in `hello-doug`
* ongoing streamlining of the tool in general; we'll be removed `monax files` and the IPFS integrations as well as toning down the dependency on docker.

[(Photo credit: CC-BY-SA: kruzulis @ Flickr )](https://www.flickr.com/photos/kruzulis/6521122443/in/photolist-aWfsvz-S3En41-qwskrG-nS7VYS-hLPotz-EEg8E1-qSGmk2-ewk46d-mPyytq-jxAtsG-oH8Qmr-8XTLNn-jBPxhf-euUmTw-7bdHfV-fY9Upm-saxHe1-rYnGvk-o9tPKq-9tqChE-561XEx-o9wvmy-7DcdDf-apsFUK-bvGorQ-5HHPEh-Janxcy-bCs1FD-ScnV1B-rjNGkm-HhhcTh-hVLi4m-9BXgp1-Rgorik-nBCLqw-Stgnco-R92XFk-FJVzFS-pwaF3n-dAuFfc-fbfo1c-8JR3vp-8o1fst-dogu8q-pVYoLi-r79H7r-FqYUqe-GHwsrs-fDD8K7-Pxz7FE)
