---

# fill in
date:      2017-05-16T00:00:00Z
title:     Monax 0.17.0 is Released
author:    zach
excerpt:   "Trimming the fat"
thumbnail: monax_0170_release.jpg
categories:
  - releases
tags:
  - engineering
  - monax

# use if needed
published: true
comments:  true
meta:      true
utm:
  source: "website"
  medium: "blog"
  campaign: "v0.17 release"

---

## Full steam ahead
[{{< image_blog "monax_0170_release.jpg" >}}](https://www.flickr.com/photos/104516583@N07/33842764435/)

After undergoing significant consolidation of various repositories in the 0.16.0 release, today we release 0.17.0 with numerous optimizations. The first thing users will notice is the deprecation of several commands, subcommands, and flags. These are part of an effort to reduce our surface area, and focus on what we do best: blockchains. Moving forward, our focus will be on the main pipeline users are familiar with:

```
monax chains make bobchain
monax chains start bobchain --init-dir ~/.monax/chains/bobchain/bobchain_full_000
monax pkgs do --chain bobchain --address ADDR
```

where the commands, 1) make the necessary files on your host, 2) start burrow in a docker container after copying the files into it, and 3) deploy & test a suite of smart contracts (if working from `pwd`). That's the simplest setup for a single node chain, however, more complex chains/deployments involve some additional flags and multiple hosts. In order to focus on this pipeline, we've trimmed the fat all over the stack and will continue to do so in future releases.

## Commands Removed
* `monax files` and the whole IPFS integration has been removed. The integration was out of date, rarely used, and it was usually easier for application developers to hook into it independently.
* `monax services/chains` lose the subcommands: `cat, inspect, ls, ports, update/restart, edit`; these can all be accomplished via other means.
* `monax data` has been completely removed, although the internals are kept for running chains and services.

These commands were not well documented, minimally used, and were not part of the core app developement pipeline. A handful of other small changes were made which can be found in the [changelog](https://github.com/monax/cli/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

## Deprecation Warnings
* this will be the last release where support for non-Linux platforms is provided. We'll be deprecating the `--machine` flag and any functional conveniences associated with macOS and Windows, in order to simplify the Docker integration. A way to conveniently run `monax` on these platforms will eventually be provided, however, in the meantime, advanced users will still be able to install from source and run `monax` on non-Linux operating systems. Alternatively, users can run `monax` on a stock DigitalOcean droplet. We're doing this because there is significant overhead in maintaining compatibility with these operating systems, and because the majority (if not all) deployments are in the cloud on Linux based machines anyways.
* usage of the javascript libraries has been removed from the documentation. Although we expect compatibility to continue, the javascript libraries will no longer be maintained by the Monax team. We've learned that for the majority of enterprise use cases, hooking into the job runner (`monax pkgs do`) is more effective. The documentation will be updated to reflect best practices.

## Installation and Upgrade

To install monax version 0.17.0 please see our {{< utm_link title="Getting Started" href="/docs/getting-started/" >}} page. If you're upgrading, we strongly recommend the package manager for your appropriate platform.

## What's Next

Our next release is well underway and will be numbered 0.18.0. It will include:
* optimizations to the compiler functionality
* improvements to the `chains make` output sequence
* greater flexibility with the `pkgs do` pipeline via flags

[(Photo credit: CC-BY-SA: bruce cole @ Flickr )](https://www.flickr.com/photos/104516583@N07/33842764435/)
