---
author: preston
categories:
- announcements
- press
comments: false
date: 2017-04-01T00:00:00Z
meta: true
published: true
tags:
- announcements
- bobak
- bitmarmot
thumbnail: bobak.jpg
excerpt: "Monax announces it has created a global, trustless, decentralized world computer utilizing the all-new Marmotcoin blockchain token."
title: "Monax goes into production with Bobak, the global vote-trading platform"
url: /2017/04/01/monax-goes-into-production-with-bobak-the-global-vote-trading-platform/
---

Here at Monax we've always worked hard to solve our customers’ toughest problems. As a London-headquartered company with a predominantly European workforce, however, in 2016 we ran into some fairly major problems of our own.

The most significant of these was putting into effect contingency planning around the passage of the Investigatory Powers Act and the Brexit referendum, neither of which we ever thought we would need to use. As the year progressed, things only got worse. The results of the U.S. election in November were welcomed by only one member of our 14-strong team; threatened EU membership referenda in France, the Netherlands and Italy all have the potential to disrupt our operations still further.

Being global citizens, shortly after November 8th we decided that enough was enough. So we set our minds to solving one major problem that nobody has yet applied the blockchain to: building on the success of vote swapping apps in [England](http://voteswap.org/) and the [United States](http://bunewsservice.com/vote-swapping-apps-aim-to-give-weight-to-more-votes/) to create a blockchain-backed schelling game that both solves the nothing-at-stake problem and ensures that election and referendum results in one country do not disproportionately affect people who live elsewhere.

It is therefore with great pleasure today that we announce, in partnership with the cities of [Bielefeld, Germany](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bielefeld) and [Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Punxsutawney,_Pennsylvania), the launch of *Bobak* - the world's first distributed ledger system built specifically to enable cross-jurisdictional international election vote-trading.

**BOBAK APPLICATION ARCHITECTURE**

_Bobak_ utilises the [_Hyperledger Burrow_](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1FkE-dhV4QXrbckTg_ub8TBQDUa0G5UD-Gfggo7lqNko/edit) smart contract machine, the Tendermint consensus engine, and Monax's brand new [voting and elections SDK](https://monax.io/library/).

Voters generate their own ed22519 keypairs and use our proprietary _Linuxchuck_ web portal to notify the smart contract election object of the municipalities in which they live of the public key-component, with two-factor verification performed in-person at their local town hall. Municipalities (for this prototype, Bielefeld and Punxsutawney) then post a further smart contract to the blockchain which shows both the next elections and the voter register for their cities. Once registered, new voters access a decentralized matching oracle, hosted on servers in Monax’s underground base in the Swiss Alps, to interact with “smart escrow” smart contracts that permit multiple users to bid for ballots using our proprietary _Marmotcoin_ token on the Ethereum blockchain (which, like Ethereum, _Bobak_ uses as a kind of crypto-fuel).

Users are thus able to purchase and trade the right to vote in each others’ elections in a fully trustless and decentralised manner. _Marmotcoin_ crypto-fuel is very potent stuff, however, and powers not just the application but also an array of Kubernetes sandboxes which overclock the blockchain’s [Unix Django](https://twitter.com/christianmaioli/status/844528595976499200/photo/1) and root the Gibson before disencrypting voter intent.

This ensures ballot papers are correctly assigned and shipped to the recipient(s). “Due to the resulting hashfest on the _Bobak_ world computer, once shipped, a ballot paper cannot be recalled once sent,” RJ Catalano, platform developer, pointed out. “The platform is purely functional so that no state will ever be updated by this without the inline Solidity custom-built SolcMonad verifying the paper ballots with a custom-built [Ledger.co](https://ledger.co) hardware wallet.”

The end result is that voters are able to reduce their influence in deciding their leaders to increase their influence over what they see on TV. Suffice it to say, the team is extremely excited at the possibilities this new platform creates. As the Western world benefits from a near-perfectly equal distribution of valid ballot papers, Bobak is able to guarantee that exercise of a vote-swap between participating municipalities ensures a temporary loss (or, on matters of constitutional importance, extended loss, depending on the schelling point in applicable _Marmotcoin_-denominated prediction markets measuring the value of each poll at the time of the trade) of voting rights at home. This ensures countries will be governed not by the people who live there, but by those who, relatively, care the most.

“Bobak builds on the to-date-purely-theoretical work of Vlad Zamfir on the Casper proof-of-stake algorithm and reduces it to practice in a very interesting way,” Silas Davis, Monax Core Developer, commented. “Many people around the world have been dissatisfied with poll results this year. The beauty of using ballots as stake instead of crypto-tokens is that it solves the ‘nothing-at-stake’ problem in a stroke - with the added benefit of restoring faith in the markets at home and in democracy abroad at the same time.”

Casey Kuhlman, CEO and in-house tambourine player, added: “the Bobak application nicely showcases not only the utility of Burrow, Tendermint and Data Marmot 3000, but also the Ethereum public blockchain, the latter of which is not actually required here but we’ve thrown it in anyway. Because reasons.”

“What a colossal waste of time. The team is just annoyed that I keep wearing my _Make America Great Again_ hat in our Monday meetings,” added Preston Byrne, who also works at Monax, and whose political opinions are shared by no-one else at the Company. “I’m just here for the marmots.”

**ABOUT MONAX**

Monax builds a premier open platform for developers and devops to build, ship, and run blockchain and smart contract systems for enterprise. From offices in London, Berlin, and wherever marmots can be found, Monax's multidisciplinary team of lawyers, scientists, and engineers combine their respective areas of expertise to deliver fit-for-purpose blockchain and smart contract tooling to the world's best companies, whether innovative startups or global financial infrastructure providers, even on April 1st. To learn more, visit: http://marmots.org .
