---
author: Monax
categories:
- products
comments: false
date: 2016-01-28T00:00:00Z
deprecated: true
excerpt: We'll keep this short.
meta: true
published: true
tags:
- announcements
title: Monax Industries announces strategic partnership with PricewaterhouseCoopers
# url: /blog/2016/01/28/pwc/
slug: pwc
---



We'll keep this short:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" lang="en"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">We are pleased to announce <a href="https://twitter.com/monaxHQ">@monaxHQ</a> has been appointed a strategic partner in PwC&#39;s Blockchain solutions portfolio! <a href="https://twitter.com/PwCFinTech">@PwCFinTech</a></p>&mdash; Eris Industries (@monaxHQ) <a href="https://twitter.com/monaxHQ/status/692808595860279296">January 28, 2016</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

(Note: at the time of this announcement Monax Industries was known as Eris Industries.)

Suffice it to say, we're very pleased about this and looking forward to accomplishing great things in the coming year.

Learning about the Eris software for the first time and want to know what it is? Our partners at Microsoft [sum up the platform pretty well](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-in/blog/azure-blockchain-as-a-service-update-4/), so I will just quote them here:

*"Eris is a universal blockchain platform capable of running any client for a public blockchain and any client for a permissioned blockchain which is open sourced. The Eris platform greatly reduces the complexity of creating blockchain based applications. Integrate multiple blockchain, distributed file storage, and other distributed systems into a cohesive application. Eris also makes it simple and easy for your organization to get started using permissionable, smart contract capable blockchains."*

Simple and easy. And even, dare I say it, fun.

If you have questions, or would like to get started using our free, open-source platform today, we'd love to hear from you. Please direct any queries to contact@monax.io in the first instance.
