

The Monax Stack: understanding what makes legal products go.

Monax is dedicated to building infrastructure fit for operation of digital legal products, legal agreements that can do jobs and communicate with each other. The Monax stack is composed of a number of tools that combine to deliver the infrastructure necessary to create the legal layer for networked commerce.

##Add to graphic above the line; marketplace, webapp and services
##specifically draw the Monax webapp on the marketplace as only ONE of the vendors



The Monax Legal Product Modeler. The Monax LPM is a tool to enable legal template producers and consumers will use to design and deploy smart contracts on the Agreements Network. The modeler combines several user needs into one tool. First, it creates a prose template of complete legal terms and conditions associated with a contract. Second, the modeler connects that template with a set of parameters, which are the data points that will need tracking during the lifecycle of an Active Agreement. These parameters are then used to design process models conforming to Business Process Modeling Notation (BPMN). The Monax LPM converts the BPMN file to Solidity smart contracts code, deployed and operated on the Agreements Network. Because BPMN is a well-adopted, open-source standard, it serves as an interoperable model for designing, deploying and proving legally significant processes on The Agreements Network. https://monax.io/
https://www.hyperledger.org/blog/2018/08/16/business-process-modeling-the-missing-link-between-legal-know-how-and-blockchain-based-legal-products

The Agreements Network. The Agreements Network is a proof-of-stake distributed ledger tooled to be fit for operation of commercial legal products at scale. It was originally designed by Monax, and launched by ecosystem participants who share a need for a blockchain tooled for legal product. The Agreements Network operates on core technical governance principles that are transparent, skin-in-game models intended to incentivize production and profitable activity for all ecosystem participants. The Agreements Network is built with a completely free and open-source stack: Monax smart contracts suite, Hyperledger Burrow, SQL Sol, Hoard and IPFS/S3/DSM.  https://agreements.network/ https://docs.agreements.network/

Monax smart contracts suite are a set of tools created out of our experience designing blockchain-based smart contracts and applications and are key building blocks for executing legal products. These Solidity smart contracts are geared toward interoperable legal operations functionality rather than any particular token-based substrate. The Monax smart contracts suite will be open-sourced in the fall of 2018.

Hyperledger Burrow is an open-source, Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible, permissionable blockchain. It was originally designed and developed by Monax beginning in 2014 and in 2017 became part of the Linux-supported Hyperledger codebase to enable users to configure their blockchain based solution to their own needs, rather than be limited to a system requiring a particular token. Legal agreements must work interoperably regardless of whether a platform uses a particular cryptocurrency for day-to-day operations. Hyperledger Burrow enables users to build and deploy Ethereum-compatible Solidity smart contracts and configure the permissions and operations as needed for unique needs. The Burrow component of the Monax stack ensures a robust, tested blockchain reference layer underpinning the Agreements Network’s governance frameworks. https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/hyperledger-burrow

SQLSol, built by Monax, enables caching and querying of solidity smart contracts. Smart contracts don’t automatically have a way to output their information, they are pretty dumb. The SQLSol tool allows users to put the “smart” in their smart contracts by accessing and extracting data stored in the blockchain. https://github.com/monax/sqlsol/blob/master/Sqlsol%20-%20The%20(sort%20of)%20Definitive%20Guide.md

Hoard, also built by Monax, is a stateless, deterministically encrypted, content-addressed object store. This means it gives smart contract developers a way to access and use objects stored in several locations and then forget that information once a process has terminated. At the moment, Hoard supports files Interplanetary File System (IPFS), Amazon’s S3 and Synology’s DSM. https://github.com/monax/hoard
The above components are delivered to users through a Rest API, an open-source communication standard that enables interoperable transfers of data via the internet. One critical feature of the Monax stack is that it is composed almost entirely of free and open-source tools. This encourages transactional interoperability, much like a Restful API encourages usability of a platform on the internet. Open source codebase means quick auditability and forensic validation of operations, while encryption of content enables protection of valuable data.
That’s it, the stack that enables Active Agreements, legal contracts that can “talk to each other!” To find out more, contact us for a demo.
